# Auditory Cortex
Contact: Encarnación Martínez Álvarez

mail: encarni.speechtherapy9@gmail.com

DOI 10.5281/zenodo.2529046 

This repository has been created to share my research project about the brain about Auditory Cortex.  At the moment the project is in the first phase: “literature review”. 

Project of investigation: Central Auditory Processing

Thanks to the research on the brain, nowadays we have a lot of information about what this organ is made of and how it works. This has been very useful to the human being evolve in different aspects such as healthy care, improvements in neurosurgery or neurological rehabilitation. In addition to the field of neuroscience, another discipline that has benefited has been technology such as Deep Learning, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, which had its beginnings by copying the composition and the neural network from the brain. We certainly have to say that thanks to this improvement in technology, advances in neuroscience were possible, that is, they are disciplines that complement each other to improve their effectiveness. However, we still do not know too much information to deal with the different pathologies that the brain can present and we lack the necessary technology to be able to advance in research. Therefore, it is very important to continue investigating and we have to do it as multidisciplinary as possible. 

A SHORt INTRODUCTION OF THE BRAIN 

The brain belongs to Central Nervous System (CNS) and it is composed by encephalon and spinal cord. The encephalon is consisting of three parts: brain, cerebellum and brainstem. The brain is divided in two hemispheric (left and right) as well as a cerebral cortex and subcortex. Furthermore, each lobe is divided in four external lobes: frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe and occipital lobe. The cerebral cortexes of the temporal lobes are associated to auditory processing and a brain damage could produce comprehensive language impairments as aphasia, cortical deafness or auditory agnosia. In the subcortex are basal ganglia and auditory radiatons which go from medial geniculate nucleus (thalamus) to temporal cortex. The subcortex is connecting with the language areas and its lesion may generate comprehensive language impairment too.  The brain is covered by a layer of gray colour and whose thickness is divided into 6 layers with different types of neurons that receive and send projections to the rest of the CNS. Neurons connect one to the other forming neural circuits necessary for information processing. These connections known as synapses can be excitatory or inhibitory, being the most frequent Glutamate (excitatory) and GABA (inhibitory). Each has cell subtypes with different properties. The excitatory connections are responsible for activating (connecting) the neurons required by an external stimulus while the inhibitory ones deactivate (block) the neurons that are not necessary for this stimulus.
Transmission is carried out thanks to the action potential generated by the stimulus in each cell and its synapse can be chemical or electrical. Chemical synapses release neurotransmitters, and electrical synapses exchange ions (K, Ca, Cl, or Na) through ion channels that give neuron membranes permeability. This transmission of information can be done more quickly to myelinization of neurons, which consists of layers of myelin generated by oligodendrocytes in the axons of neurons, causing the saltatory conduction of the signal to prevent the energy fall before reaching the target neuron.

THE BRAIN AND THE BRAIN INJURY

When a part of the brain suffers a stroke, it generally causes a loss of the abilities corresponding to the damaged area. The degree of involvement is related to the size of the lesion, which can be reduced by a rapid medical response. Brain damage on the temporal lobe can cause Wernicke's in which the subject presents alterations in the understanding of language. Other type of pathologies are cortical deafness and auditory agnosias, in which the patients may present alterations in processing in everything they are hearing, or they don’t only understand the language or complex sounds or music. Some brain regions and cells have a selective vulnerability when they are damaged, namely, they are resistant depending of place on the brain, kind of cell or stimulus (ischemia, hypoxia...). 
In addition, a brain injury produces a series of cellular mechanisms that lead to neuronal death such as necrosis (cell death mainly due to excitotoxicity), or apoptosis (programmed neuronal death by carrying out a series of intrinsic and extrinsic activations), or necropsis (cell death with stimulus external similar to apoptosis), or delayed cell death (with a mechanism similar to apoptosis). These mechanisms are the result of harmful behaviors in cells such as excitotoxicity (particularly glutamate binding to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, with increased calcium inside the cell) and Nitric Oxide (it can be beneficial with a cell protective or harmful by increasing calcium inside the cell or damage non-neuronal cells). The natural stimulus and the intensity to which the cell is subjected, the type of neuron and state in its life cycle, are the variables that most influence to decide if it will be necrosis or apoptosis. 

Regard with the temporal lobe, there is not enough research about it and we do not know how our communicative system works even though there are a lot of pathologies with impaired language.  Then, we need to know what properties have each neuron on the auditory cortex and how these neurons are connected forming neuronal circuits. It is important learn what neuronal circuits are underlying throughout the auditory processing and the language, where they are connecting in each layer and how the different neurons work before different stimulus,  because it could be useful to building some devices with high technology to help people with deficits with their auditory processing disorder.

METHOLOGY

The method it will be based in analysis of dates and circuits modeling. We do not work in lab of animal experimentation, but we will take the data and we will work with them using software to answer some hypothesis. 

PATHOLOGIES WITH THE IMPAIRED AUDITORY PROCESSING 

The Cortical Deafness (CD) is pathology of the brain whose patients are unresponsive to all types of sounds (verbal and no verbal) while its peripheral hearing is intact. This term was created by Wernicke in 1883 whose patient had a bilateral damage in the temporal lobes. However, the Auditory Agnosia (AA) is a pathology which symptom is the incapacity to recognize auditory stimuli. The AA may classify in three general groups:

•	Auditory agnosia to sounds: incapacity to recognize family sounds of the environment but they can understand words.

•	Word deafness or Pure Word Deafness: incapacity to understand oral language but they can to recognize family environment sounds, understand written language.

•	Amusia: incapacity to recognize feature of the music (melody, key or rhythm) and it may be congenital (before of birth) or acquired (caused by brain damage). 

The Cortical Deafness and the Auditory Agnosia are associated with damage in the both temporal lobes cortex, auditory radiatons or basal ganglia and those lesions are produced by pathologies as CVA or they may be associated to other pathologies as virus (simplex herpes), Mitochondrial disorders (MELAS) or syndrome (Landau- Kleffner), which they are affecting to areas related with the language. 

Clinic presentations these patients have periphery hearing intact and theirs spontaneous speech, read and write are more preserved than oral repetition or dictated which are severely affected. When the lesion is very long and it has damaged other lobes, the patient may show other symptoms which will be joined to language impairment.
First of all, cortical deafness and auditory agnosia are pathologies whose patients have difficulties to understand what they are hearing. Although CD was identified at the end of the 19th century, nowadays the CD and the AA both are still being rare and uncommon deficits. Given there are not much research about Cortical deafness and Auditory Agnosia and theirs results are so vary that there are several gaps in different aspects of the pathologies they should be investigated.

Secondly, these pathologies may be not diagnosis correctly because there are patients that do not have language impairment such as auditory agnosia to sounds. They can understand words but they cannot identify environment sounds (e g. ambulance siren) and this deficit may affect the diary life activities. Additionally, prelingual children may be diagnosis as sensorineural hearing loss because they do not have any language in the moment of the assessment. Besides, the patients with MELAS may be diagnosed as sensorineural hearing loss but it is possible the cochlea is intact and the problem is in the brain lesion. 

Studies about CD or AA conclude that the temporal lobes cortex lesion cause these pathologies, but there is not agreement what part or parts of the temporal lobes are implicate for produce these language deficits. Other studies have concluded that auditory radiatons, basal ganglia even insula lobe may cause CD or AA. Furthermore, if the pathology has been produced by unilateral or bilateral lesion is another question that it is not clarified yet. When the lesion is very long and it affect other lobes (frontal, parietal or occipital), language deficits may be confuse as well as more varying and dubious causality, so the assessment and the diagnosis are very complicate to these patients. Language impairments are the oral repetition and the dictate, but spontaneous speech, writer and read are more preserved. Nevertheless, linguistic problems vary between patients even when all of them only have the lesion in the temporal lobe. The hearing is not affected although several studies show audiometries within and without sensorineural hearing loss. However, the auditory brainstem responses (ABR) of either ear confirm the integrity of the auditory nerves and pathways up to the inferior colliculi of both sides. This means that the auditory system has not problems and the patient can hearing. In addition, the rehabilitation to those pathologies almost doesn't exist. Moreover, some studies suggest that the lips reading or signed language can help them to communicate with other people.


LICENSE: https://github.com/Encarni-AuditoryCortex/AuditoryCortex/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

CODE OF CONDUCT: https://github.com/Encarni-SpeechTherapy/AuditoryCortex/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md


      




  
 

 

